And under the hood,
while this is all happening from 16 later,
which is I believe hooks,
yeah, hooks related to fiber.
Fibers are just a data structure where
it keeps track of component interests as
siblings, all those things, and
try to figure out how to optimize
this as much as possible.
This is why stuff like keys are important.
This is why the general kind of other
advice that I would give you is, for
instance, if something is mostly the same
but for some reason you're like,
I've got this crazy trick where I'm gonna
switch it from a div to a span, those
are the things where React's like I don't
even know what's going on anymore, right?
And so this is a piece of programming
advice I will just give you which is
that really fancy stuff seems really cool,
and
the kind of more explicit stuff
is on a long enough timeline,
almost always better for
both the computer and your friends.
But yeah, fibers are how kind of
React wires this all together.
It's the status structure,
we can keep the kinda previous iterations,
it has a structure that it's looking at.
And this is why I say the whole,
it's just a virtual DOM thing is less and
less true these days.
It's actually grown a bit since 2013.
Imagine that, frameworks change
over almost a decade now, right?
So yeah, there are lots of things but
this is why the keys are important.
It's what was the order?
Do I need to throw away this entire
list or table or what have you?
Can I just insert one DOM element?
Because sometimes I did this course on
JavaScript performance a long time ago.
But sometimes it's actually cheaper
when you're updating the DOM to just
blow away an entire section and
put it back, right?
And sometimes it's cheaper
to just add one to the end.
And so if you do not give React
the information that it needs,
it cannot make good
choices on your behalf.
And then you're like, React is slow.
I'm like, is it React?
Or are you making poor choices, right?
And so understanding that
there are complications and
that the whole process in which it
does this is not magic, is important.
>> Mine might just be a misunderstanding,
but were you saying semantic HTML
is worse than just divs for
React or the other way around?
>> No, I'm saying if you came up
with some really fancy technique of,
in this moment I'm gonna change it from
being a div to a span for this reason,
it's gonna throw it out, right?
Semantic HTML, great,
consistently semantic HTML, like weird,
dynamic programming thing that
you did to impress your friends.
>> Out of place.
>> Yeah, is almost always going to
confuse the very delicate set of
heuristics that has been finetuned
over the last nine years to help you.
>> So one or the other throughout.
>> Yeah, like the fancier you get,
the more you're walking on the edge.
>> Is there a reason not to auto
sign a unique key at least to
handle the remove and
change order to your list?
>> As long as it's consistent, right?
For instance, yeah,
bad ideas math.random, but, okay, right?
That's a ridiculous bad idea.
Other bad ideas, the array index,
cuz that will change every
time the array changes, right?
But that one seems like I don't have one,
I'll just use that to get React
to be quiet and leave me alone.
But sometimes we have situations where
it's like if you're usually getting
something from an API, you usually got
some kind of ID to work with, right?
But if you don't, then to your question,
the right thing to do is around the time
you get that array or collection or
whatever, assign everything
in their unique identifier.
Map over it first before
[INAUDIBLE] a React component.
Give them all, even a standard integer
that's not gonna change based on the where
it is in the array or UUID, or grab
the NanoID like library and just, yeah.
If you need to give stuff, if it didn't
come for you with some way, shape or form,
like it was just an array of strings
that could have duplicates, right?
Go through them first and maybe map them
into an object that's got whatever that
string was, and then a unique ID, right?
Especially if it's changing in any way,
shape, or form.
Which is like on a long enough timeline,
assume anything like when you first wrote
the code, this array never changes.
If you've been doing this more than
three months, it's changed on you.
Right, so yeah,
I think grabbing it first and
putting a unique identifier from
something in some way, shape or form.
I said this in a previous one,
I got bit by this one time.
We had actually an API with a unique
ID and for some reason somebody
else on my team had used the name of the
templates cuz there's a list of templates,
the name of the templates as the key.
But you could have two of those, you could
have two templates of the same name, and
it wasn't until I was like,
we were doing a migration thing and
I had to reinvent the thing.
I was throwing a bunch of dummy data
at it, where I had multiple ones and
React went to a weird mode where
things weren't changing or moving.
It didn't know what to update when cuz I
had two with the same unique identifier.
And I thought I had found some unique bug.
And then my teammate walked up to me,
looked at my screen,
pointed at it and
reminded me that it was not the case.
But above and beyond performance issues,
you could also end up with things aren't
changing the way you thought and
you're getting no error messages.
>> And run into similar examples of,
I think it's a unique ID, but
it turns out under some
circumstances is not.
If you do a search and
the search result array comes back and
there might be a link to the page for
that search result.
But if there are multiple
matches on a target page and
they both come back as a different
search result, because they match
different parts of the document-
>> Yep.
>> They might have the same identifier,
so good.
>> Yep.
>> Good scenario to when you
get the API response just
uniquely identify each element and
then render.
>> Exactly,
if you don't get a unique thing,
then you can give it to it upon
receiving it and use that to track it.
Yeah, Mark.
>> So we need to be very careful with the
context API as it lifts the state up for
you, right?
>> Yeah,
we spend a whole hour on that one.
[LAUGH] I'm gonna do the spoiler alert.
I'm gonna spoil it now.
We're gonna do a bunch of things to make
an app renderless, and then we're gonna
add the context API to it, and
then we're gonna start over [LAUGH].
So as we're going through that initial
one just don't get your hopes up, right?
So yes, the question was, does the context
API which then sits literally,
if you think about where
you put those providers,
you put it around the application
component, right?
So they will trigger all sorts of things.
Now, there are ways to solve for this.
And one of the things that
you'll notice that a lot of
the other larger libraries
don't have these problems,
let's say hypothetically
I'm gonna use context API,
I may use like my own,
I don't even need Redux, right?
You'll notice flashes of green everywhere.
And you'll notice install React Redux,
it doesn't.
One, it's just optimized more than
you did at the very first thing.
And then, two, in React 18,
Redux is structured differently in so
far as the store external.
And so it's not necessarily using
all the hooks that trigger stuff.
It's actually using a completely
different hook called useSyncExterna.
That is mostly meant for
libraries to interact with,
right, that you could totally use to.
And if we have free time at some point,
I'll show it to you but like,
yeah, using the context API,
then you get a new set of things.
Luckily, in this workshop, if I might sell
you on sticking out with me, we will run
into that issue and we will address that
issue, and we will solve that issue, and
then will break it again, and
we'll solve it again, right?
Fun times, all right.
Speaking of questions coming in
that set me up for making promises,
like I said before,
we talked about automate batching so
I won't spend too long on it now,
but in React 18.
And if you notice, if you just bump
up ]your React 18 from 17 to 18,
and your package JSON,
you will immediately get yelled at.
Without polite warning in the console,
which is like you're
using React DOM.render,
you need to use create route and
then from that route render it, right?
That is an API change
that actually opts you
in to effectively some new
functionality that gets you this.
So if you use,
I guess the other, it depends.
Do you get automatic batching as if
you've chosen to upgrade to React 18 and
ignore that suggestion,
then know you don't cuz you're still
using React 17 earlier as
React DOM implementation, right?
And so you get automatic batching if
you use the recommended concurrent
C supporting version of mounting
the initial root node, Mark.
>> Yeah,
there's a clarification on how this works.
So is React rendering each component and
then saving the result of it and
then when it re renders
kind of comparing the two?
>> Basically yeah.
So the question was,
it's saving the output from last time.
Looking how it's changed.
That is how it collects all the data for
the commit phase, right?
Awesome.
On the topic of the automatic batching,
which is before
React 18, there was a way to like,
there was like,
forget the name was like
unstable_batch updates,
that might have actually been the name.
And you could use that and like React
Redux used in other libraries used it like
in the same way that before there was
the context API that we all know and love.
There was always legacy,
never fully supported,
always unstable one that all these
libraries used originally as well.
And so there's this one
that those libraries used.
Now that it's supported in React 18 for
everyone.
I guess sometimes you need to, for
some reason, give people the opposite.
So if you for some reason, need to get
out of automatic batching which you
better have a real good reason like
when that when that PR lands on my desk,
I'm gonna have questions for you.
And if it's like I totally needed it for
this very like the burden
of proof is on you to use.
Look at all the docs even frames it, like
it starts out with a big warning thing.
Using flushSync is uncommon and
can hurt the performance of your app.
The burden of proof is on you if
you choose to use this one, but
I just want to do my due diligence to make
you aware that it does in fact exist.
If you need it, I've done my job,
I've told you about it.
If you mention my name in the PR,
I will deny every minute of it despite
the fact that this is recorded and
live streamed.